[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: I wanna
just go back to orgs.
>> Mike North: We've got Welcome to
Ember there and that's kind of silly, so
I'm gonna get rid of that.
I'm gonna go to application.hbs,
which is the place you put
things that are showing up no matter what,
it wraps everything.
I'm gonna delete that default stuff.
And then we have an outlet there.
So really, when we have
a template that looks like this,
it's really a pass through.
And in fact,
when Ember CLI generates a template for
you as part of building a new route,
this is what it's going to create.
The reason is,
even if you don't touch this, everything
will continue to work as you expect.
If, for example, some parent route
doesn't add anything visual to the screen,
but child routes are important.
This will allow everything to pass
through and work as you would expect.
And in fact, if I were to delete this
file, Ember will fall back to a default
template and continue to function, and
this would be the default template.
So next I want to go to the orgs.
>> Mike North: Template and
I'm just gonna say.
>> Mike North: My favorite orgs.
And I'm gonna create.
>> Mike North: Some lis and
I'm gonna link to.
>> Mike North: Org.repos,
and I just wanna make
sure that works, so I'll save it.
All right, so
if I hover over this I can see, and
it's very difficult to see, unfortunately
Chrome doesn't scale this up.
But my URL hovering over this
I can see is Org/jQuery/Repos.
This would be the list of repos for
jQuery.
So this is in fact what I want.
I'm gonna shrink this down a little so
we can make it look nice and copy it.
>> Mike North: And
we'll just change this to.
>> Mike North: So now we've our list of
Orgs, and the URL changes as I go through
and I can see that my dynamic
segment works as expected.
So we've got this part done.
>> Mike North: All right, so
now I'm gonna go to an individual org.
So I'm on the,
I actually have two routes active,
that I haven't touched the template for.
I've got org.hbs, and org/repos.hbs, and
I can find out that these templates
are active through the Ember inspector.
If I look at the Active Routes tab, it
will actually show you and the view tree
will let you hover over and see that these
are what are showing up on the screen.
So, if I go that org.hbs, and
I'm just going to put Facebook here or
something, and I'm gonna to orgrepos.hbs.
Orgrepos.hps, and here another list.
>> Mike North: I'm gonna do link, so
link-to react org.repo.issues and
then react.
>> Mike North: All right, so you guys may
have structured your routes differently,
and I just wanna paint it,
I wanna illustrate the difference between
what you're seeing on the screen here.
So here the list of orgs and
an individual org,
they don't really share anything in
common in terms of the template.
If I had just, had like orgs index for
the list and then orgs something else.
They would share this
common orgs.hbs template.
You'd actually be pivoting at
a lower node in the route hierarchy.
And when you're pivoting on a lower node,
that will typically correspond to common
elements being shown on the screen.
Right, so I'll just hover over the view
tree here, so we can see what that means.
>> Mike North: If you don't mind
I'm just gonna hopefully, oops.
We're hopefully gonna speed things
up by not mirroring anymore.
>> Mike North: All right,
that's much better.
[LAUGH] So if we look at routes here,
and I make this wider, and you look at
the current route only, we can see that
we've got application and we've got orgs.
And if you look at the views,
that is exactly what you'd expect.
Remember we cleared everything
out of application,
and so you're seeing that basically
orgs is the entirely of application.
It's filling that outlet, and
there's nothing else to application.hps.
If we go into an individual repo here,
we've got org,
right, instead of orgs and
that's the templates here.
And then, within that,
we've got org.repos, and
that's going to be basically
this section here.
So, one of the requirements on
the screen was that any time you're,
one of the requirements listed for
this exercise was, any time you're viewing
a particular org, I want a link that says,
back to the list of orgs.
And so I'm just gonna add that here.
>> Mike North: And it will pop-up here and
so we can go back and forth and back and
forth.
And of course we've hard coded everything,
and so you don't really see things
changing in terms of what's rendered but
the URL is accurate, right?
And that's the point of this exercise.
So, let's continue our work here.
Just copy this into the li and
we'll do react-native,
and we'll do watchman.
And now we've got a list of repositories.
And when we drill into one of these,
you'll see that because we're
still in the context of org.
This part of the template
remains on the screen,
and so if I go to repo.hbs and
I do something like this,
let's take it down one layer, one point.
>> Mike North: So that's the repo, and
then we need the ability
to toggle between Issues.
>> Mike North: And Contributors.
>> Mike North: And
just to make it look nice.
>> Mike North: We'll add
a little bit of style afterwards.
But one thing I wanna point
out about the link-to,
if we look at the HTML that's generated,
you can see that active is
a class that's added to issues.
And if I switch to contributors here,
active will be added to contributors.
So this is another thing
that sort of comes for free.
Link-to out of the box gives you an easy
way to style active state of a link,
because that's a common need, right,
if you're building a nav or something.
So we can actually.
>> Mike North: We'll just go here,
we'll do class = repo-nav,
and here we'll just do some quick stuff.
>> Mike North: And.
>> Mike North: And then by default.
>> Mike North: All right, so
now we've got some semblance of a nav.
>> Mike North: Where we can clearly
see some active state here.
And last thing I'm gonna do is go to
Contributors, and just put something here.
>> Mike North: And Issues,
and put something here.
>> Mike North: And so
here's what we're left with.
So we can toggle between Issues and
Contributors, and see that
only the template sort of below
the nav that we built is changing.
Everything else is left
untouched in the dom.
So if we go back to the list of orgs, we
go to Ember, we go to an individual org,
and now as we drill into repo,
this up here will remain untouched.
It's only what's in the outlet of
the thing that we're pivoting on
that will change, right?
And then as we switch here you can see
that only what's below it in that outlet,
that we're pivoting on will change.
Does that make sense to everybody?
>> Speaker 2: And
then the URL isn't changing either.
>> Mike North: The URL
is actually changing.
If you look,
let me make it a little wider.
So we're going Issues, Contributors.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: So orgs, we'll go to Ember,
so we're at org/emberjs/repos,
then we'll click on repo.
Actually, we've run into the problem.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: I set myself up for
a bug and then I forgot about it.
So, here's the issue.
When you're building these link-tos, for
example, when we're building a link-to to
go into a repo, the complete URL
has two dynamic segments in it.
It has the name of the org and
the name of the repo.
And because in my router
I've used id twice,
think of it as like a context
that is used to populate the URL.
So I have an ID already there and
I use it again, and
it's basically, it's the same value.
So if I just change this to like repoid,
and
I go here and then react-native.
Now you can see that we have the URL
that we're supposed to have.
Good catch and thank you for not letting
me forget the trap that I set for myself.
So, I just want to check back
at what we set out to do here.
So, we've got-
>> Speaker 2: What is the scope for
the id?
>> Mike North: The scope?
I'm not sure what you mean.
>> Speaker 2: Just in the hierarchy
of the directory structure.
>> Mike North: So.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: The dynamic segment I
would not try to connect that
to the directory structure.
It is simply a place holder for
a dynamic value of some sort,
anything other than a forward slash,
that pertains only to URL.
And part of what a router does,
is it decouples your code
from the URL to some degree.
So the way your routes are structured,
the hierarchy of the routes, matters a lot
more in terms of how your code is
organized than to the actual URL itself.
And this is a powerful place where you
can have control over that relationship.